# Electric_Water_Heating_Cooling_System
This is project is a practice of four months embedded software systems diploma. The system's input interface control components are three push button switches. Two seven segments and LCD for the output interface components. The system has four modes of operation. The starting mode, where welcome the user and displays the set temperature. In the on-state mode, where the system reads the temperature from a temperature sensor using the analog-digital converter and timer interrupts to get a temperature reading every 100m seconds then calculate the average of the last ten read temperatures then display it on the display units if the read temperature is below the set temperature by five degrees the heating system turned on pending reading the set temperature. if the read temperature is above the set temperature by five degrees the cooling system is turned on, otherwise, if the read temperature is in the range of ten degrees from the set temperature the system turns off both cooling and heating systems. The user can enter the setting mode by pressing either the up or down switches. The setting mode allows the user to modify the set temperature in a range of 35 to 75 degrees, then save this new temperature in EEPROM, this updated temperature is the new set temperature and the system can access it even if the system is turned off by entering the off-state mode or if the power is turned off. The off-state mode put the system in sleep mode and turns off all the internal systems, waiting for the user to press the ON_OFF switch to enter the on-state mode again.
